Luke:1:1:Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, 
Luke:1:2:just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. 
Luke:1:3:With this in mind, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, I too decided to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, 
Luke:1:4:so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught.
Luke:1:5:In the time of Herod king of Judea there was a priest named Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah; his wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. 
Luke:1:6:Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord’s commands and decrees blamelessly. 
Luke:1:7:But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive, and they were both very old.
Luke:1:8:Once when Zechariah’s division was on duty and he was serving as priest before God, 
Luke:1:9:he was chosen by lot, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. 
Luke:1:10:And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshipers were praying outside.
Luke:1:11:Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. 
Luke:1:12:When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. 
Luke:1:13:But the angel said to him: “Do not be afraid, Zechariah; your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to call him John. 
Luke:1:14:He will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth, 
Luke:1:15:for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or other fermented drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born. 
Luke:1:16:He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God. 
Luke:1:17:And he will go on before the Lord, in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the parents to their children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous—to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.”
Luke:1:18:Zechariah asked the angel, “How can I be sure of this? I am an old man and my wife is well along in years.”
Luke:1:19:The angel said to him, “I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. 
Luke:1:20:And now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come true at their appointed time.”
Luke:1:21:Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he stayed so long in the temple. 
Luke:1:22:When he came out, he could not speak to them. They realized he had seen a vision in the temple, for he kept making signs to them but remained unable to speak.
Luke:1:23:When his time of service was completed, he returned home. 
Luke:1:24:After this his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five months remained in seclusion. 
Luke:1:25:“The Lord has done this for me,” she said. “In these days he has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace among the people.”
Luke:1:26:In the sixth month of Elizabeth’s pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, 
Luke:1:27:to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin’s name was Mary. 
Luke:1:28:The angel went to her and said, “Greetings, you who are highly favored! The Lord is with you.”
Luke:1:29:Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. 
Luke:1:30:But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary; you have found favor with God. 
Luke:1:31:You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus. 
Luke:1:32:He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, 
Luke:1:33:and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his kingdom will never end.”
Luke:1:34:“How will this be,” Mary asked the angel, “since I am a virgin?”
Luke:1:35:The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. 
Luke:1:36:Even Elizabeth your relative is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month. 
Luke:1:37:For no word from God will ever fail.”
Luke:1:38:“I am the Lord’s servant,” Mary answered. “May your word to me be fulfilled.” Then the angel left her.
Luke:1:39:At that time Mary got ready and hurried to a town in the hill country of Judea, 
Luke:1:40:where she entered Zechariah’s home and greeted Elizabeth. 
Luke:1:41:When Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. 
Luke:1:42:In a loud voice she exclaimed: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the child you will bear! 
Luke:1:43:But why am I so favored, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? 
Luke:1:44:As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. 
Luke:1:45:Blessed is she who has believed that the Lord would fulfill his promises to her!”
Luke:1:46:And Mary said: “My soul glorifies the Lord
Luke:1:47:and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,
Luke:1:48:for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on all generations will call me blessed,
Luke:1:49:for the Mighty One has done great things for me— holy is his name.
Luke:1:50:His mercy extends to those who fear him, from generation to generation.
Luke:1:51:He has performed mighty deeds with his arm; he has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts.
Luke:1:52:He has brought down rulers from their thrones but has lifted up the humble.
Luke:1:53:He has filled the hungry with good things but has sent the rich away empty.
Luke:1:54:He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful
Luke:1:55:to Abraham and his descendants forever, just as he promised our ancestors.”
Luke:1:56:Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months and then returned home.
Luke:1:57:When it was time for Elizabeth to have her baby, she gave birth to a son. 
Luke:1:58:Her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown her great mercy, and they shared her joy.
Luke:1:59:On the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to name him after his father Zechariah, 
Luke:1:60:but his mother spoke up and said, “No! He is to be called John.”
Luke:1:61:They said to her, “There is no one among your relatives who has that name.”
Luke:1:62:Then they made signs to his father, to find out what he would like to name the child. 
Luke:1:63:He asked for a writing tablet, and to everyone’s astonishment he wrote, “His name is John.” 
Luke:1:64:Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue set free, and he began to speak, praising God. 
Luke:1:65:All the neighbors were filled with awe, and throughout the hill country of Judea people were talking about all these things. 
Luke:1:66:Everyone who heard this wondered about it, asking, “What then is this child going to be?” For the Lord’s hand was with him.
Luke:1:67:His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied:
Luke:1:68:“Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come to his people and redeemed them.
Luke:1:69:He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David
Luke:1:70:(as he said through his holy prophets of long ago),
Luke:1:71:salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us—
Luke:1:72:to show mercy to our ancestors and to remember his holy covenant,
Luke:1:73:the oath he swore to our father Abraham:
Luke:1:74:to rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and to enable us to serve him without fear
Luke:1:75:in holiness and righteousness before him all our days.
Luke:1:76:And you, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High; for you will go on before the Lord to prepare the way for him,
Luke:1:77:to give his people the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins,
Luke:1:78:because of the tender mercy of our God, by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven
Luke:1:79:to shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the path of peace.”
Luke:1:80:And the child grew and became strong in spirit; and he lived in the wilderness until he appeared publicly to Israel. 
Luke:2:1:In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. 
Luke:2:2:(This was the first census that took place while Quirinius was governor of Syria.) 
Luke:2:3:And everyone went to their own town to register. 
Luke:2:4:So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. 
Luke:2:5:He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. 
Luke:2:6:While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, 
Luke:2:7:and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no guest room available for them.
Luke:2:8:And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. 
Luke:2:9:An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 
Luke:2:10:But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people. 
Luke:2:11:Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you; he is the Messiah, the Lord. 
Luke:2:12:This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.”
Luke:2:13:Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel, praising God and saying,
Luke:2:14:“Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests.”
Luke:2:15:When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about.”
Luke:2:16:So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby, who was lying in the manger. 
Luke:2:17:When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child, 
Luke:2:18:and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. 
Luke:2:19:But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. 
Luke:2:20:The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told.
Luke:2:21:On the eighth day, when it was time to circumcise the child, he was named Jesus, the name the angel had given him before he was conceived.
Luke:2:22:When the time came for the purification rites required by the Law of Moses, Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord 
Luke:2:23:(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male is to be consecrated to the Lord”), 
Luke:2:24:and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with what is said in the Law of the Lord: “a pair of doves or two young pigeons.”
Luke:2:25:Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was on him. 
Luke:2:26:It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Messiah. 
Luke:2:27:Moved by the Spirit, he went into the temple courts. When the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him what the custom of the Law required, 
Luke:2:28:Simeon took him in his arms and praised God, saying:
Luke:2:29:“Sovereign Lord, as you have promised, you may now dismiss your servant in peace.
Luke:2:30:For my eyes have seen your salvation,
Luke:2:31:which you have prepared in the sight of all nations:
Luke:2:32:a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of your people Israel.”
Luke:2:33:The child’s father and mother marveled at what was said about him. 
Luke:2:34:Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a sign that will be spoken against, 
Luke:2:35:so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed. And a sword will pierce your own soul too.”
Luke:2:36:There was also a prophet, Anna, the daughter of Penuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage, 
Luke:2:37:and then was a widow until she was eighty-four. She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying. 
Luke:2:38:Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of Jerusalem.
Luke:2:39:When Joseph and Mary had done everything required by the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee to their own town of Nazareth. 
Luke:2:40:And the child grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was on him.
Luke:2:41:Every year Jesus’ parents went to Jerusalem for the Festival of the Passover. 
Luke:2:42:When he was twelve years old, they went up to the festival, according to the custom. 
Luke:2:43:After the festival was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it. 
Luke:2:44:Thinking he was in their company, they traveled on for a day. Then they began looking for him among their relatives and friends. 
Luke:2:45:When they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. 
Luke:2:46:After three days they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. 
Luke:2:47:Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. 
Luke:2:48:When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you.”
Luke:2:49:“Why were you searching for me?” he asked. “Didn’t you know I had to be in my Father’s house?” 
Luke:2:50:But they did not understand what he was saying to them.
Luke:2:51:Then he went down to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. But his mother treasured all these things in her heart. 
Luke:2:52:And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.
Luke:3:1:In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar—when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, Herod tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip tetrarch of Iturea and Traconitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene— 
Luke:3:2:during the high-priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John son of Zechariah in the wilderness. 
Luke:3:3:He went into all the country around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
Luke:3:4:As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet: “A voice of one calling in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way for the Lord, make straight paths for him.
Luke:3:5:Every valley shall be filled in, every mountain and hill made low.The crooked roads shall become straight, the rough ways smooth.
Luke:3:6:And all people will see God’s salvation.’”
Luke:3:7:John said to the crowds coming out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? 
Luke:3:8:Produce fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I tell you that out of these stones God can raise up children for Abraham. 
Luke:3:9:The ax is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.”
Luke:3:10:“What should we do then?” the crowd asked.
Luke:3:11:John answered, “Anyone who has two shirts should share with the one who has none, and anyone who has food should do the same.”
Luke:3:12:Even tax collectors came to be baptized. “Teacher,” they asked, “what should we do?”
Luke:3:13:“Don’t collect any more than you are required to,” he told them.
Luke:3:14:Then some soldiers asked him, “And what should we do?” He replied, “Don’t extort money and don’t accuse people falsely—be content with your pay.”
Luke:3:15:The people were waiting expectantly and were all wondering in their hearts if John might possibly be the Messiah. 
Luke:3:16:John answered them all, “I baptize you with water. But one who is more powerful than I will come, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. 
Luke:3:17:His winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
Luke:3:18:And with many other words John exhorted the people and proclaimed the good news to them.
Luke:3:19:But when John rebuked Herod the tetrarch because of his marriage to Herodias, his brother’s wife, and all the other evil things he had done, 
Luke:3:20:Herod added this to them all: He locked John up in prison.
Luke:3:21:When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too. And as he was praying, heaven was opened 
Luke:3:22:and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: “You are my Son, whom I love; with you I am well pleased.”
Luke:3:23:Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry. He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph, the son of Heli, 
Luke:9:1:When Jesus had called the Twelve together, he gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases, 
Luke:9:2:and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 
Luke:9:3:He told them: “Take nothing for the journey—no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt. 
Luke:9:4:Whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that town. 
Luke:9:5:If people do not welcome you, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.” 
Luke:9:6:So they set out and went from village to village, proclaiming the good news and healing people everywhere.
Luke:9:7:Now Herod the tetrarch heard about all that was going on. And he was perplexed because some were saying that John had been raised from the dead, 
Luke:9:8:others that Elijah had appeared, and still others that one of the prophets of long ago had come back to life. 
Luke:9:9:But Herod said, “I beheaded John. Who, then, is this I hear such things about?” And he tried to see him.
Luke:9:10:When the apostles returned, they reported to Jesus what they had done. Then he took them with him and they withdrew by themselves to a town called Bethsaida, 
Luke:9:11:but the crowds learned about it and followed him. He welcomed them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God, and healed those who needed healing.
Luke:9:12:Late in the afternoon the Twelve came to him and said, “Send the crowd away so they can go to the surrounding villages and countryside and find food and lodging, because we are in a remote place here.”
Luke:9:13:He replied, “You give them something to eat.” They answered, “We have only five loaves of bread and two fish—unless we go and buy food for all this crowd.” 
Luke:9:14:(About five thousand men were there.:But he said to his disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.” 
Luke:9:15:The disciples did so, and everyone sat down. 
Luke:9:16:Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke them. Then he gave them to the disciples to distribute to the people. 
Luke:9:17:They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over.
Luke:9:18:Once when Jesus was praying in private and his disciples were with him, he asked them, “Who do the crowds say I am?”
Luke:9:19:They replied, “Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and still others, that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life.”
Luke:9:20:“But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?” Peter answered, “God’s Messiah.”
Luke:9:21:Jesus strictly warned them not to tell this to anyone. 
Luke:9:22:And he said, “The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life.”
Luke:9:23:Then he said to them all: “Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross daily and follow me.
Luke:9:24:For whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will save it. 
Luke:9:25:What good is it for someone to gain the whole world, and yet lose or forfeit their very self? 
Luke:9:26:Whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his glory and in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.
Luke:9:27:“Truly I tell you, some who are standing here will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God.”
Luke:9:28:About eight days after Jesus said this, he took Peter, John and James with him and went up onto a mountain to pray. 
Luke:9:29:As he was praying, the appearance of his face changed, and his clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning. 
Luke:9:30:Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in glorious splendor, talking with Jesus. 
Luke:9:31:They spoke about his departure, which he was about to bring to fulfillment at Jerusalem. 
Luke:9:32:Peter and his companions were very sleepy, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. 
Luke:9:33:As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter said to him, “Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters—one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.” (He did not know what he was saying.)
Luke:9:34:While he was speaking, a cloud appeared and covered them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. 
Luke:9:35:A voice came from the cloud, saying, “This is my Son, whom I have chosen; listen to him.” 
Luke:9:36:When the voice had spoken, they found that Jesus was alone. The disciples kept this to themselves and did not tell anyone at that time what they had seen.
Luke:9:37:The next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him. 
Luke:9:38:A man in the crowd called out, “Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child. 
Luke:9:39:A spirit seizes him and he suddenly screams; it throws him into convulsions so that he foams at the mouth. It scarcely ever leaves him and is destroying him. 
Luke:9:40:I begged your disciples to drive it out, but they could not.”
Luke:9:41:“You unbelieving and perverse generation,” Jesus replied, “how long shall I stay with you and put up with you? Bring your son here.”
Luke:9:42:Even while the boy was coming, the demon threw him to the ground in a convulsion. But Jesus rebuked the impure spirit, healed the boy and gave him back to his father. 
Luke:9:43:And they were all amazed at the greatness of God. While everyone was marveling at all that Jesus did, he said to his disciples, 
Luke:9:44:“Listen carefully to what I am about to tell you: The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.” 
Luke:9:45:But they did not understand what this meant. It was hidden from them, so that they did not grasp it, and they were afraid to ask him about it.
Luke:9:46:An argument started among the disciples as to which of them would be the greatest. 
Luke:9:47:Jesus, knowing their thoughts, took a little child and had him stand beside him. 
Luke:9:48:Then he said to them, “Whoever welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me. For it is the one who is least among you all who is the greatest.”
Luke:9:49:“Master,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name and we tried to stop him, because he is not one of us.”
Luke:9:50:“Do not stop him,” Jesus said, “for whoever is not against you is for you.”
Luke:9:51:As the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem. 
Luke:9:52:And he sent messengers on ahead, who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him; 
Luke:9:53:but the people there did not welcome him, because he was heading for Jerusalem.
Luke:9:54:When the disciples James and John saw this, they asked, “Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them?” 
Luke:9:55:But Jesus turned and rebuked them. 
Luke:9:56:Then he and his disciples went to another village.
Luke:9:57:As they were walking along the road, a man said to him, “I will follow you wherever you go.”
Luke:9:58:Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”
Luke:9:59:He said to another man, “Follow me.” But he replied, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.”
Luke:9:60:Jesus said to him, “Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God.”
Luke:9:61:Still another said, “I will follow you, Lord; but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family.”
Luke:9:62:Jesus replied, “No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God.”
Luke:10:1:After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go. 
Luke:10:2:He told them, “The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. 
Luke:10:3:Go! I am sending you out like lambs among wolves. 
Luke:10:4:Do not take a purse or bag or sandals; and do not greet anyone on the road.
Luke:10:5:“When you enter a house, first say, ‘Peace to this house.’ 
Luke:10:6:If someone who promotes peace is there, your peace will rest on them; if not, it will return to you.
Luke:10:7:Stay there, eating and drinking whatever they give you, for the worker deserves his wages. Do not move around from house to house.
Luke:10:8:“When you enter a town and are welcomed, eat what is offered to you. 
Luke:10:9:Heal the sick who are there and tell them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’ 
Luke:10:10:But when you enter a town and are not welcomed, go into its streets and say, 
Luke:10:11:‘Even the dust of your town we wipe from our feet as a warning to you. Yet be sure of this: The kingdom of God has come near.’ 
Luke:10:12:I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town.
Luke:10:13:“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
Luke:10:14:But it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. 
Luke:10:15:And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted to the heavens? No, you will go down to Hades. 
Luke:10:16:“Whoever listens to you listens to me; whoever rejects you rejects me; but whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
Luke:10:17:The seventy-two returned with joy and said, “Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name.”
Luke:10:18:He replied, “I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. 
Luke:10:19:I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome all the power of the enemy; nothing will harm you. 
Luke:10:20:However, do not rejoice that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.”
Luke:10:21:At that time Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit, said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this is what you were pleased to do.
Luke:10:22:“All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the Father is except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.”
Luke:10:23:Then he turned to his disciples and said privately, “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see. 
Luke:10:24:For I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see but did not see it, and to hear what you hear but did not hear it.”
Luke:10:25:On one occasion an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. “Teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to inherit eternal life?”
Luke:10:26:“What is written in the Law?” he replied. “How do you read it?”
Luke:10:27:He answered, “‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind’; and, ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’”
Luke:10:28:“You have answered correctly,” Jesus replied. “Do this and you will live.”
Luke:10:29:But he wanted to justify himself, so he asked Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”
Luke:10:30:In reply Jesus said: “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, when he was attacked by robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him and went away, leaving him half dead. 
Luke:10:31:A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. 
Luke:10:32:So too, a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. 
Luke:10:33:But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was; and when he saw him, he took pity on him. 
Luke:10:34:He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn and took care of him. 
Luke:10:35:The next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper. ‘Look after him,’ he said, ‘and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have.’
Luke:10:36:“Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers?”
Luke:10:37:The expert in the law replied, “The one who had mercy on him.” Jesus told him, “Go and do likewise.”
Luke:10:38:As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him. 
Luke:10:39:She had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord’s feet listening to what he said. 
Luke:10:40:But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him and asked, “Lord, don’t you care that my sister has left me to do the work by myself? Tell her to help me!”
Luke:10:41:“Martha, Martha,” the Lord answered, “you are worried and upset about many things, 
Luke:10:42:but few things are needed—or indeed only one. Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken away from her.” 
Luke:11:1:One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he finished, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples.”
Luke:11:2:He said to them, “When you pray, say: “‘Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. 
Luke:11:3:Give us each day our daily bread.
Luke:11:4:Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us. And lead us not into temptation.’”
Luke:11:5:Then Jesus said to them, “Suppose you have a friend, and you go to him at midnight and say, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread; 
Luke:11:6:a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have no food to offer him.’ 
Luke:11:7:And suppose the one inside answers, ‘Don’t bother me. The door is already locked, and my children and I are in bed. I can’t get up and give you anything.’ 
Luke:11:8:I tell you, even though he will not get up and give you the bread because of friendship, yet because of your shameless audacity he will surely get up and give you as much as you need.
Luke:11:9:“So I say to you: Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you. 
Luke:11:10:For everyone who asks receives; the one who seeks finds; and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
Luke:11:11:“Which of you fathers, if your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead? 
Luke:11:12:Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? 
Luke:11:13:If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!”
Luke:11:14:Jesus was driving out a demon that was mute. When the demon left, the man who had been mute spoke, and the crowd was amazed. 
Luke:11:15:But some of them said, “By Beelzebul, the prince of demons, he is driving out demons.” 
Luke:11:16:Others tested him by asking for a sign from heaven.
Luke:11:17:Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them: “Any kingdom divided against itself will be ruined, and a house divided against itself will fall. 
Luke:11:18:If Satan is divided against himself, how can his kingdom stand? I say this because you claim that I drive out demons by Beelzebul. 
Luke:11:19:Now if I drive out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your followers drive them out? So then, they will be your judges. 
Luke:11:20:But if I drive out demons by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Luke:11:21:“When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own house, his possessions are safe. 
Luke:11:22:But when someone stronger attacks and overpowers him, he takes away the armor in which the man trusted and divides up his plunder.
Luke:11:23:“Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Luke:11:24:“When an impure spirit comes out of a person, it goes through arid places seeking rest and does not find it. Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’ 
Luke:11:25:When it arrives, it finds the house swept clean and put in order. 
Luke:11:26:Then it goes and takes seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there. And the final condition of that person is worse than the first.”
Luke:11:27:As Jesus was saying these things, a woman in the crowd called out, “Blessed is the mother who gave you birth and nursed you.”
Luke:11:28:He replied, “Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and obey it.”
Luke:11:29:As the crowds increased, Jesus said, “This is a wicked generation. It asks for a sign, but none will be given it except the sign of Jonah. 
Luke:11:30:For as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of Man be to this generation. 
Luke:11:31:The Queen of the South will rise at the judgment with the people of this generation and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to listen to Solomon’s wisdom; and now something greater than Solomon is here. 
Luke:11:32:The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and now something greater than Jonah is here.
Luke:11:33:“No one lights a lamp and puts it in a place where it will be hidden, or under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, so that those who come in may see the light. 
Luke:11:34:Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eyes are healthy, your whole body also is full of light. But when they are unhealthy, your body also is full of darkness. 
Luke:11:35:See to it, then, that the light within you is not darkness. 
Luke:11:36:Therefore, if your whole body is full of light, and no part of it dark, it will be just as full of light as when a lamp shines its light on you.”
Luke:11:37:When Jesus had finished speaking, a Pharisee invited him to eat with him; so he went in and reclined at the table. 
Luke:11:38:But the Pharisee was surprised when he noticed that Jesus did not first wash before the meal.
Luke:11:39:Then the Lord said to him, “Now then, you Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness. 
Luke:11:40:You foolish people! Did not the one who made the outside make the inside also? 
Luke:11:41:But now as for what is inside you—be generous to the poor, and everything will be clean for you.
Luke:11:42:“Woe to you Pharisees, because you give God a tenth of your mint, rue and all other kinds of garden herbs, but you neglect justice and the love of God. You should have practiced the latter without leaving the former undone.
Luke:11:43:“Woe to you Pharisees, because you love the most important seats in the synagogues and respectful greetings in the marketplaces.
Luke:11:44:“Woe to you, because you are like unmarked graves, which people walk over without knowing it.”
Luke:11:45:One of the experts in the law answered him, “Teacher, when you say these things, you insult us also.”
Luke:11:46:Jesus replied, “And you experts in the law, woe to you, because you load people down with burdens they can hardly carry, and you yourselves will not lift one finger to help them.
Luke:11:47:“Woe to you, because you build tombs for the prophets, and it was your ancestors who killed them. 
Luke:11:48:So you testify that you approve of what your ancestors did; they killed the prophets, and you build their tombs. 
Luke:11:49:Because of this, God in his wisdom said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and others they will persecute.’ 
Luke:11:50:Therefore this generation will be held responsible for the blood of all the prophets that has been shed since the beginning of the world, 
Luke:11:51:from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, this generation will be held responsible for it all.
Luke:11:52:“Woe to you experts in the law, because you have taken away the key to knowledge. You yourselves have not entered, and you have hindered those who were entering.”
Luke:11:53:When Jesus went outside, the Pharisees and the teachers of the law began to oppose him fiercely and to besiege him with questions, 
Luke:11:54:waiting to catch him in something he might say. 
Luke:12:1:Now there were some present at that time who told Jesus about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. 
Luke:12:2:Jesus answered, “Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered this way? 
Luke:12:3:I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you too will all perish. 
Luke:12:4:Or those eighteen who died when the tower in Siloam fell on them—do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem? 
Luke:12:5:I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you too will all perish.”
Luke:12:6:Then he told this parable: “A man had a fig tree growing in his vineyard, and he went to look for fruit on it but did not find any. 
Luke:12:7:So he said to the man who took care of the vineyard, ‘For three years now I’ve been coming to look for fruit on this fig tree and haven’t found any. Cut it down! Why should it use up the soil?’
Luke:12:8:“‘Sir,’ the man replied, ‘leave it alone for one more year, and I’ll dig around it and fertilize it. 
Luke:12:9:If it bears fruit next year, fine! If not, then cut it down.’”
Luke:13:10:On a Sabbath Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues, 
Luke:13:11:and a woman was there who had been crippled by a spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not straighten up at all. 
Luke:13:12:When Jesus saw her, he called her forward and said to her, “Woman, you are set free from your infirmity.” 
Luke:13:13:Then he put his hands on her, and immediately she straightened up and praised God.
Luke:13:14:Indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, the synagogue leader said to the people, “There are six days for work. So come and be healed on those days, not on the Sabbath.”
Luke:13:15:The Lord answered him, “You hypocrites! Doesn’t each of you on the Sabbath untie your ox or donkey from the stall and lead it out to give it water? 
Luke:13:16:Then should not this woman, a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has kept bound for eighteen long years, be set free on the Sabbath day from what bound her?”
Luke:13:17:When he said this, all his opponents were humiliated, but the people were delighted with all the wonderful things he was doing.
Luke:13:18:Then Jesus asked, “What is the kingdom of God like? What shall I compare it to? 
Luke:13:19:It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and planted in his garden. It grew and became a tree, and the birds perched in its branches.”
Luke:13:20:Again he asked, “What shall I compare the kingdom of God to? 
Luke:13:21:It is like yeast that a woman took and mixed into about sixty pounds of flour until it worked all through the dough.”
Luke:13:22:Then Jesus went through the towns and villages, teaching as he made his way to Jerusalem. 
Luke:13:23:Someone asked him, “Lord, are only a few people going to be saved?” He said to them, 
Luke:13:24:“Make every effort to enter through the narrow door, because many, I tell you, will try to enter and will not be able to. 
Luke:13:25:Once the owner of the house gets up and closes the door, you will stand outside knocking and pleading, ‘Sir, open the door for us.’ “But he will answer, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from.’ 
Luke:13:26:“Then you will say, ‘We ate and drank with you, and you taught in our streets.’
Luke:13:27:“But he will reply, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from. Away from me, all you evildoers!’
Luke:13:28:“There will be weeping there, and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves thrown out. 
Luke:13:29:People will come from east and west and north and south, and will take their places at the feast in the kingdom of God. 
Luke:13:30:Indeed there are those who are last who will be first, and first who will be last.”
Luke:13:31:At that time some Pharisees came to Jesus and said to him, “Leave this place and go somewhere else. Herod wants to kill you.”
Luke:13:32:He replied, “Go tell that fox, ‘I will keep on driving out demons and healing people today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will reach my goal.’ 
Luke:13:33:In any case, I must press on today and tomorrow and the next day—for surely no prophet can die outside Jerusalem!
Luke:13:34:“Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing. 
Luke:13:35:Look, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’” 
Luke:14:1:One Sabbath, when Jesus went to eat in the house of a prominent Pharisee, he was being carefully watched. 
Luke:14:2:There in front of him was a man suffering from abnormal swelling of his body. 
Luke:14:3:Jesus asked the Pharisees and experts in the law, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not?” 
Luke:14:4:But they remained silent. So taking hold of the man, he healed him and sent him on his way.
Luke:14:5:Then he asked them, “If one of you has a child or an ox that falls into a well on the Sabbath day, will you not immediately pull it out?” 
Luke:14:6:And they had nothing to say.
Luke:14:7:When he noticed how the guests picked the places of honor at the table, he told them this parable: 
Luke:14:8:“When someone invites you to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor, for a person more distinguished than you may have been invited. 
Luke:14:9:If so, the host who invited both of you will come and say to you, ‘Give this person your seat.’ Then, humiliated, you will have to take the least important place. 
Luke:14:10:But when you are invited, take the lowest place, so that when your host comes, he will say to you, ‘Friend, move up to a better place.’ Then you will be honored in the presence of all the other guests. 
Luke:14:11:For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.”
Luke:14:12:Then Jesus said to his host, “When you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your friends, your brothers or sisters, your relatives, or your rich neighbors; if you do, they may invite you back and so you will be repaid. 
Luke:14:13:But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, 
Luke:14:14:and you will be blessed. Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”
Luke:14:15:When one of those at the table with him heard this, he said to Jesus, “Blessed is the one who will eat at the feast in the kingdom of God.”
Luke:14:16:Jesus replied: “A certain man was preparing a great banquet and invited many guests. 
Luke:14:17:At the time of the banquet he sent his servant to tell those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now ready.’
Luke:14:18:“But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said, ‘I have just bought a field, and I must go and see it. Please excuse me.’
Luke:14:19:“Another said, ‘I have just bought five yoke of oxen, and I’m on my way to try them out. Please excuse me.’
Luke:14:20:“Still another said, ‘I just got married, so I can’t come.’
Luke:14:21:“The servant came back and reported this to his master. Then the owner of the house became angry and ordered his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and alleys of the town and bring in the poor, the crippled, the blind and the lame.’
Luke:14:22:“‘Sir,’ the servant said, ‘what you ordered has been done, but there is still room.’
Luke:14:23:“Then the master told his servant, ‘Go out to the roads and country lanes and compel them to come in, so that my house will be full. 
Luke:14:24:I tell you, not one of those who were invited will get a taste of my banquet.’”
Luke:14:25:Large crowds were traveling with Jesus, and turning to them he said: 
Luke:14:26:“If anyone comes to me and does not hate father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters—yes, even their own life—such a person cannot be my disciple. 
Luke:14:27:And whoever does not carry their cross and follow me cannot be my disciple.
Luke:14:28:“Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Won’t you first sit down and estimate the cost to see if you have enough money to complete it? 
Luke:14:29:For if you lay the foundation and are not able to finish it, everyone who sees it will ridicule you, 
Luke:14:30:saying, ‘This person began to build and wasn’t able to finish.’
Luke:14:31:“Or suppose a king is about to go to war against another king. Won’t he first sit down and consider whether he is able with ten thousand men to oppose the one coming against him with twenty thousand? 
Luke:14:32:If he is not able, he will send a delegation while the other is still a long way off and will ask for terms of peace. 
Luke:14:33:In the same way, those of you who do not give up everything you have cannot be my disciples.
Luke:14:34:“Salt is good, but if it loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? 
Luke:14:35:It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile; it is thrown out. “Whoever has ears to hear, let them hear.”
Luke:15:1:Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. 
Luke:15:2:But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”
Luke:15:3:Then Jesus told them this parable: 
Luke:15:4:“Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Doesn’t he leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? 
Luke:15:5:And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders 
Luke:15:6:and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, ‘Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.’ 
Luke:15:7:I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent.
Luke:15:8:“Or suppose a woman has ten silver coins and loses one. Doesn’t she light a lamp, sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it? 
Luke:15:9:And when she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors together and says, ‘Rejoice with me; I have found my lost coin.’ 
Luke:15:10:In the same way, I tell you, there is rejoicing in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents.”
Luke:15:11:Jesus continued: “There was a man who had two sons. 
Luke:15:12:The younger one said to his father, ‘Father, give me my share of the estate.’ So he divided his property between them.
Luke:15:13:“Not long after that, the younger son got together all he had, set off for a distant country and there squandered his wealth in wild living. 
Luke:15:14:After he had spent everything, there was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need. 
Luke:15:15:So he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country, who sent him to his fields to feed pigs. 
Luke:15:16:He longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything.
Luke:15:17:“When he came to his senses, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired servants have food to spare, and here I am starving to death! 
Luke:15:18:I will set out and go back to my father and say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. 
Luke:15:19:I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired servants.’ 
Luke:15:20:So he got up and went to his father. “But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him; he ran to his son, threw his arms around him and kissed him.
Luke:15:21:“The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
Luke:15:22:“But the father said to his servants, ‘Quick! Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. 
Luke:15:23:Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let’s have a feast and celebrate. 
Luke:15:24:For this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.’ So they began to celebrate.
Luke:15:25:“Meanwhile, the older son was in the field. When he came near the house, he heard music and dancing. 
Luke:15:26:So he called one of the servants and asked him what was going on. 
Luke:15:27:‘Your brother has come,’ he replied, ‘and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has him back safe and sound.’
Luke:15:28:“The older brother became angry and refused to go in. So his father went out and pleaded with him. 
Luke:15:29:But he answered his father, ‘Look! All these years I’ve been slaving for you and never disobeyed your orders. Yet you never gave me even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends. 
Luke:15:30:But when this son of yours who has squandered your property with prostitutes comes home, you kill the fattened calf for him!’
Luke:15:31:“‘My son,’ the father said, ‘you are always with me, and everything I have is yours. 
Luke:15:32:But we had to celebrate and be glad, because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.’” 
Luke:16:1:Jesus told his disciples: “There was a rich man whose manager was accused of wasting his possessions. 
Luke:16:2:So he called him in and asked him, ‘What is this I hear about you? Give an account of your management, because you cannot be manager any longer.’
Luke:16:3:“The manager said to himself, ‘What shall I do now? My master is taking away my job. I’m not strong enough to dig, and I’m ashamed to beg— 
Luke:16:4:I know what I’ll do so that, when I lose my job here, people will welcome me into their houses.’
Luke:16:5:“So he called in each one of his master’s debtors. He asked the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’
Luke:16:6:“‘Nine hundred gallons of olive oil,’ he replied. “The manager told him, ‘Take your bill, sit down quickly, and make it four hundred and fifty.’
Luke:16:7:“Then he asked the second, ‘And how much do you owe?’ “‘A thousand bushels of wheat,’ he replied. “He told him, ‘Take your bill and make it eight hundred.’
Luke:16:8:“The master commended the dishonest manager because he had acted shrewdly. For the people of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own kind than are the people of the light. 
Luke:16:9:I tell you, use worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves, so that when it is gone, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings.
Luke:16:10:“Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with much, and whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much. 
Luke:16:11:So if you have not been trustworthy in handling worldly wealth, who will trust you with true riches? 
Luke:16:16:And if you have not been trustworthy with someone else’s property, who will give you property of your own?
Luke:16:13:“No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.”
Luke:16:14:The Pharisees, who loved money, heard all this and were sneering at Jesus. 
Luke:16:15:He said to them, “You are the ones who justify yourselves in the eyes of others, but God knows your hearts. What people value highly is detestable in God’s sight.
Luke:16:16:“The Law and the Prophets were proclaimed until John. Since that time, the good news of the kingdom of God is being preached, and everyone is forcing their way into it. 
Luke:16:17:It is easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for the least stroke of a pen to drop out of the Law.
Luke:16:18:“Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery, and the man who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
Luke:16:19:“There was a rich man who was dressed in purple and fine linen and lived in luxury every day. 
Luke:16:20:At his gate was laid a beggar named Lazarus, covered with sores 
Luke:16:21:and longing to eat what fell from the rich man’s table. Even the dogs came and licked his sores.
Luke:16:22:“The time came when the beggar died and the angels carried him to Abraham’s side. The rich man also died and was buried. 
Luke:16:23:In Hades, where he was in torment, he looked up and saw Abraham far away, with Lazarus by his side. 
Luke:16:24:So he called to him, ‘Father Abraham, have pity on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, because I am in agony in this fire.’
Luke:16:25:“But Abraham replied, ‘Son, remember that in your lifetime you received your good things, while Lazarus received bad things, but now he is comforted here and you are in agony. 
Luke:16:26:And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been set in place, so that those who want to go from here to you cannot, nor can anyone cross over from there to us.’
Luke:16:27:“He answered, ‘Then I beg you, father, send Lazarus to my family, 
Luke:16:28:for I have five brothers. Let him warn them, so that they will not also come to this place of torment.’
Luke:16:29:“Abraham replied, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; let them listen to them.’
Luke:16:30:“‘No, father Abraham,’ he said, ‘but if someone from the dead goes to them, they will repent.’
Luke:16:31:“He said to him, ‘If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead.’”
Luke:17:1:Jesus said to his disciples: “Things that cause people to stumble are bound to come, but woe to anyone through whom they come. 
Luke:17:2:It would be better for them to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around their neck than to cause one of these little ones to stumble. 
Luke:17:3:So watch yourselves. “If your brother or sister sins against you, rebuke them; and if they repent, forgive them. 
Luke:17:4:Even if they sin against you seven times in a day and seven times come back to you saying ‘I repent,’ you must forgive them.”
Luke:17:5:The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!”
Luke:17:6:He replied, “If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it will obey you.
Luke:17:7:“Suppose one of you has a servant plowing or looking after the sheep. Will he say to the servant when he comes in from the field, ‘Come along now and sit down to eat’? 
Luke:17:8:Won’t he rather say, ‘Prepare my supper, get yourself ready and wait on me while I eat and drink; after that you may eat and drink’? 
Luke:17:9:Will he thank the servant because he did what he was told to do? 
Luke:17:10:So you also, when you have done everything you were told to do, should say, ‘We are unworthy servants; we have only done our duty.’”
Luke:17:11:Now on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee. 
Luke:17:12:As he was going into a village, ten men who had leprosy met him. They stood at a distance 
Luke:17:13:and called out in a loud voice, “Jesus, Master, have pity on us!”
Luke:17:14:When he saw them, he said, “Go, show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went, they were cleansed.
Luke:17:15:One of them, when he saw he was healed, came back, praising God in a loud voice. 
Luke:17:16:He threw himself at Jesus’ feet and thanked him—and he was a Samaritan.
Luke:17:17:Jesus asked, “Were not all ten cleansed? Where are the other nine? 
Luke:17:18:Has no one returned to give praise to God except this foreigner?” 
Luke:17:19:Then he said to him, “Rise and go; your faith has made you well.”
Luke:17:20:Once, on being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, Jesus replied, “The coming of the kingdom of God is not something that can be observed, 
Luke:17:21:nor will people say, ‘Here it is,’ or ‘There it is,’ because the kingdom of God is in your midst.” 
Luke:17:22:Then he said to his disciples, “The time is coming when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, but you will not see it. 
Luke:17:23:People will tell you, ‘There he is!’ or ‘Here he is!’ Do not go running off after them. 
Luke:17:24:For the Son of Man in his day will be like the lightning, which flashes and lights up the sky from one end to the other. 
Luke:17:25:But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
Luke:17:26:“Just as it was in the days of Noah, so also will it be in the days of the Son of Man. 
Luke:17:27:People were eating, drinking, marrying and being given in marriage up to the day Noah entered the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all.
Luke:17:28:“It was the same in the days of Lot. People were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building. 
Luke:17:29:But the day Lot left Sodom, fire and sulfur rained down from heaven and destroyed them all.
Luke:17:30:“It will be just like this on the day the Son of Man is revealed. 
Luke:17:31:On that day no one who is on the housetop, with possessions inside, should go down to get them. Likewise, no one in the field should go back for anything. 
Luke:17:32:Remember Lot’s wife! 
Luke:17:33:Whoever tries to keep their life will lose it, and whoever loses their life will preserve it. 
Luke:17:34:I tell you, on that night two people will be in one bed; one will be taken and the other left. 
Luke:17:35:Two women will be grinding grain together; one will be taken and the other left.” 
Luke:17:37:“Where, Lord?” they asked. He replied, “Where there is a dead body, there the vultures will gather.”
Luke:18:1:Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray and not give up. 
Luke:18:2:He said: “In a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor cared what people thought. 
Luke:18:3:And there was a widow in that town who kept coming to him with the plea, ‘Grant me justice against my adversary.’
Luke:18:4:“For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, ‘Even though I don’t fear God or care what people think, 
Luke:18:5:yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice, so that she won’t eventually come and attack me!’”
Luke:18:6:And the Lord said, “Listen to what the unjust judge says. 
Luke:18:7:And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off? 
Luke:18:8:I tell you, he will see that they get justice, and quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth?”
Luke:18:9:To some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everyone else, Jesus told this parable: 
Luke:18:10:“Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 
Luke:18:11:The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people—robbers, evildoers, adulterers—or even like this tax collector. 
Luke:18:12:I fast twice a week and give a tenth of all I get.’
Luke:18:13:“But the tax collector stood at a distance. He would not even look up to heaven, but beat his breast and said, ‘God, have mercy on me, a sinner.’
Luke:18:14:“I tell you that this man, rather than the other, went home justified before God. For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.”
Luke:18:15:People were also bringing babies to Jesus for him to place his hands on them. When the disciples saw this, they rebuked them. 
Luke:18:16:But Jesus called the children to him and said, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. 
Luke:18:17:Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.”
Luke:18:18:A certain ruler asked him, “Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”
Luke:18:19:“Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good—except God alone. 
Luke:18:20:You know the commandments: ‘You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, honor your father and mother.’”
Luke:18:21:“All these I have kept since I was a boy,” he said.
Luke:18:22:When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “You still lack one thing. Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”
Luke:18:23:When he heard this, he became very sad, because he was very wealthy. 
Luke:18:24:Jesus looked at him and said, “How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God! 
Luke:18:25:Indeed, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”
Luke:18:26:Those who heard this asked, “Who then can be saved?”
Luke:18:27:Jesus replied, “What is impossible with man is possible with God.”
Luke:18:28:Peter said to him, “We have left all we had to follow you!”
Luke:18:29:“Truly I tell you,” Jesus said to them, “no one who has left home or wife or brothers or sisters or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God 
Luke:18:30:will fail to receive many times as much in this age, and in the age to come eternal life.”
Luke:18:31:Jesus took the Twelve aside and told them, “We are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written by the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled. 
Luke:18:32:He will be delivered over to the Gentiles. They will mock him, insult him and spit on him; 
Luke:18:33:they will flog him and kill him. On the third day he will rise again.”
Luke:18:34:The disciples did not understand any of this. Its meaning was hidden from them, and they did not know what he was talking about.
Luke:18:35:As Jesus approached Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging. 
Luke:18:36:When he heard the crowd going by, he asked what was happening. 
Luke:18:37:They told him, “Jesus of Nazareth is passing by.”
Luke:18:38:He called out, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Luke:18:39:Those who led the way rebuked him and told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Luke:18:40:Jesus stopped and ordered the man to be brought to him. When he came near, Jesus asked him, 
Luke:18:41:“What do you want me to do for you?” “Lord, I want to see,” he replied.
Luke:18:42:Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight; your faith has healed you.” 
Luke:18:43:Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus, praising God. When all the people saw it, they also praised God.
Luke:19:1:Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through. 
Luke:19:2:A man was there by the name of Zacchaeus; he was a chief tax collector and was wealthy. 
Luke:19:3:He wanted to see who Jesus was, but because he was short he could not see over the crowd. 
Luke:19:4:So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore-fig tree to see him, since Jesus was coming that way.
Luke:19:5:When Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to him, “Zacchaeus, come down immediately. I must stay at your house today.” 
Luke:19:6:So he came down at once and welcomed him gladly.
Luke:19:7:All the people saw this and began to mutter, “He has gone to be the guest of a sinner.”
Luke:19:8:But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, “Look, Lord! Here and now I give half of my possessions to the poor, and if I have cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay back four times the amount.”
Luke:19:9:Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, because this man, too, is a son of Abraham. 
Luke:19:10:For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.”
Luke:19:11:While they were listening to this, he went on to tell them a parable, because he was near Jerusalem and the people thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear at once. 
Luke:19:12:He said: “A man of noble birth went to a distant country to have himself appointed king and then to return. 
Luke:19:13:So he called ten of his servants and gave them ten minas. ‘Put this money to work,’ he said, ‘until I come back.’
Luke:19:14:“But his subjects hated him and sent a delegation after him to say, ‘We don’t want this man to be our king.’
Luke:19:15:“He was made king, however, and returned home. Then he sent for the servants to whom he had given the money, in order to find out what they had gained with it.
Luke:19:16:“The first one came and said, ‘Sir, your mina has earned ten more.’
Luke:19:17:“‘Well done, my good servant!’ his master replied. ‘Because you have been trustworthy in a very small matter, take charge of ten cities.’
Luke:19:18:“The second came and said, ‘Sir, your mina has earned five more.’
Luke:19:19:“His master answered, ‘You take charge of five cities.’
Luke:19:20:“Then another servant came and said, ‘Sir, here is your mina; I have kept it laid away in a piece of cloth. 
Luke:19:21:I was afraid of you, because you are a hard man. You take out what you did not put in and reap what you did not sow.’
Luke:19:22:“His master replied, ‘I will judge you by your own words, you wicked servant! You knew, did you, that I am a hard man, taking out what I did not put in, and reaping what I did not sow? 
Luke:19:23:Why then didn’t you put my money on deposit, so that when I came back, I could have collected it with interest?’
Luke:19:24:“Then he said to those standing by, ‘Take his mina away from him and give it to the one who has ten minas.’
Luke:19:25:“‘Sir,’ they said, ‘he already has ten!’
Luke:19:26:“He replied, ‘I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but as for the one who has nothing, even what they have will be taken away. 
Luke:19:27:But those enemies of mine who did not want me to be king over them—bring them here and kill them in front of me.’”
Luke:19:28:After Jesus had said this, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. 
Luke:19:29:As he approached Bethphage and Bethany at the hill called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying to them, 
Luke:19:30:“Go to the village ahead of you, and as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. Untie it and bring it here. 
Luke:19:31:If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ say, ‘The Lord needs it.’”
Luke:19:32:Those who were sent ahead went and found it just as he had told them. 
Luke:19:33:As they were untying the colt, its owners asked them, “Why are you untying the colt?”
Luke:19:34:They replied, “The Lord needs it.”
Luke:19:35:They brought it to Jesus, threw their cloaks on the colt and put Jesus on it. 
Luke:19:36:As he went along, people spread their cloaks on the road.
Luke:19:37:When he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen:
Luke:19:38:“Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!” “Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!”
Luke:19:39:Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, “Teacher, rebuke your disciples!”
Luke:19:40:“I tell you,” he replied, “if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out.”
Luke:19:41:As he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it 
Luke:19:42:and said, “If you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace—but now it is hidden from your eyes. 
Luke:19:43:The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you and encircle you and hem you in on every side. 
Luke:19:44:They will dash you to the ground, you and the children within your walls. They will not leave one stone on another, because you did not recognize the time of God’s coming to you.”
Luke:19:45:When Jesus entered the temple courts, he began to drive out those who were selling. 
Luke:19:46:“It is written,” he said to them, “‘My house will be a house of prayer’; but you have made it ‘a den of robbers.’”
Luke:19:47:Every day he was teaching at the temple. But the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the leaders among the people were trying to kill him. 
Luke:19:48:Yet they could not find any way to do it, because all the people hung on his words. 
Luke:21:1:As Jesus looked up, he saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury. 
Luke:21:2:He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins. 
Luke:21:3:“Truly I tell you,” he said, “this poor widow has put in more than all the others. 
Luke:21:4:All these people gave their gifts out of their wealth; but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.”
Luke:21:5:Some of his disciples were remarking about how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and with gifts dedicated to God. But Jesus said, 
Luke:21:6:“As for what you see here, the time will come when not one stone will be left on another; every one of them will be thrown down.”
Luke:21:7:“Teacher,” they asked, “when will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?”
Luke:21:8:He replied: “Watch out that you are not deceived. For many will come in my name, claiming, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The time is near.’ Do not follow them. 
Luke:21:9:When you hear of wars and uprisings, do not be frightened. These things must happen first, but the end will not come right away.”
Luke:21:10:Then he said to them: “Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
Luke:21:11:There will be great earthquakes, famines and pestilences in various places, and fearful events and great signs from heaven.
Luke:21:12:“But before all this, they will seize you and persecute you. They will hand you over to synagogues and put you in prison, and you will be brought before kings and governors, and all on account of my name. 
Luke:21:13:And so you will bear testimony to me. 
Luke:21:14:But make up your mind not to worry beforehand how you will defend yourselves. 
Luke:21:15:For I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict. 
Luke:21:16:You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers and sisters, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. 
Luke:21:17:Everyone will hate you because of me. 
Luke:21:18:But not a hair of your head will perish. 
Luke:21:19:Stand firm, and you will win life.
Luke:21:20:“When you see Jerusalem being surrounded by armies, you will know that its desolation is near. 
Luke:21:21:Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, let those in the city get out, and let those in the country not enter the city. 
Luke:21:22:For this is the time of punishment in fulfillment of all that has been written. 
Luke:21:23:How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers! There will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people. 
Luke:21:24:They will fall by the sword and will be taken as prisoners to all the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Luke:21:25:“There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea. 
Luke:21:26:People will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world, for the heavenly bodies will be shaken. 
Luke:21:27:At that time they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Luke:21:28:When these things begin to take place, stand up and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.”
Luke:21:29:He told them this parable: “Look at the fig tree and all the trees. 
Luke:21:30:When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near. 
Luke:21:31:Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Luke:21:32:“Truly I tell you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. 
Luke:21:33:Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away.
Luke:21:34:“Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day will close on you suddenly like a trap. 
Luke:21:35:For it will come on all those who live on the face of the whole earth. 
Luke:21:36:Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man.”
Luke:21:37:Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives, 
Luke:21:38:and all the people came early in the morning to hear him at the temple.
Luke:22:1:Now the Festival of Unleavened Bread, called the Passover, was approaching, 
Luke:22:2:and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some way to get rid of Jesus, for they were afraid of the people. 
Luke:22:3:Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, one of the Twelve. 
Luke:22:4:And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and discussed with them how he might betray Jesus. 
Luke:22:5:They were delighted and agreed to give him money. 
Luke:22:6:He consented, and watched for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them when no crowd was present.
Luke:22:7:Then came the day of Unleavened Bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. 
Luke:22:8:Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and make preparations for us to eat the Passover.”
Luke:22:9:“Where do you want us to prepare for it?” they asked.
Luke:22:10:He replied, “As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him to the house that he enters, 
Luke:22:11:and say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher asks: Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’ 
Luke:22:12:He will show you a large room upstairs, all furnished. Make preparations there.”
Luke:22:13:They left and found things just as Jesus had told them. So they prepared the Passover.
Luke:22:14:When the hour came, Jesus and his apostles reclined at the table. 
Luke:22:15:And he said to them, “I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. 
Luke:22:16:For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God.”
Luke:22:17:After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, “Take this and divide it among you. 
Luke:22:18:For I tell you I will not drink again from the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.”
Luke:22:19:And he took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “This is my body given for you; do this in remembrance of me.”
Luke:22:20:In the same way, after the supper he took the cup, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. 
Luke:22:21:But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table. 
Luke:22:22:The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed. But woe to that man who betrays him!” 
Luke:22:23:They began to question among themselves which of them it might be who would do this.
Luke:22:24:A dispute also arose among them as to which of them was considered to be greatest. 
Luke:22:25:Jesus said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who exercise authority over them call themselves Benefactors. 
Luke:22:26:But you are not to be like that. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who rules like the one who serves. 
Luke:22:27:For who is greater, the one who is at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who is at the table? But I am among you as one who serves. 
Luke:22:28:You are those who have stood by me in my trials. 
Luke:22:29:And I confer on you a kingdom, just as my Father conferred one on me, 
Luke:22:30:so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Luke:22:31:“Simon, Simon, Satan has asked to sift all of you as wheat. 
Luke:22:32:But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers.”
Luke:22:33:But he replied, “Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death.”
Luke:22:34:Jesus answered, “I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you know me.”
Luke:22:35:Then Jesus asked them, “When I sent you without purse, bag or sandals, did you lack anything?” “Nothing,” they answered.
Luke:22:36:He said to them, “But now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag; and if you don’t have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. 
Luke:22:37:It is written: ‘And he was numbered with the transgressors’; and I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. Yes, what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment.”
Luke:22:38:The disciples said, “See, Lord, here are two swords.” “That’s enough!” he replied.
Luke:22:39:Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. 
Luke:22:40:On reaching the place, he said to them, “Pray that you will not fall into temptation.” 
Luke:22:41:He withdrew about a stone’s throw beyond them, knelt down and prayed, 
Luke:22:42:“Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me; yet not my will, but yours be done.” 
Luke:22:43:An angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. 
Luke:22:44:And being in anguish, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground. 
Luke:22:45:When he rose from prayer and went back to the disciples, he found them asleep, exhausted from sorrow. 
Luke:22:46:“Why are you sleeping?” he asked them. “Get up and pray so that you will not fall into temptation.”
Luke:22:47:While he was still speaking a crowd came up, and the man who was called Judas, one of the Twelve, was leading them. He approached Jesus to kiss him, 
Luke:22:48:but Jesus asked him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?”
Luke:22:49:When Jesus’ followers saw what was going to happen, they said, “Lord, should we strike with our swords?” 
Luke:22:50:And one of them struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his right ear.
Luke:22:51:But Jesus answered, “No more of this!” And he touched the man’s ear and healed him.
Luke:22:52:Then Jesus said to the chief priests, the officers of the temple guard, and the elders, who had come for him, “Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come with swords and clubs? 
Luke:22:53:Every day I was with you in the temple courts, and you did not lay a hand on me. But this is your hour—when darkness reigns.”
Luke:22:54:Then seizing him, they led him away and took him into the house of the high priest. Peter followed at a distance. 
Luke:22:55:And when some there had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter sat down with them. 
Luke:22:56:A servant girl saw him seated there in the firelight. She looked closely at him and said, “This man was with him.”
Luke:22:57:But he denied it. “Woman, I don’t know him,” he said.
Luke:22:58:A little later someone else saw him and said, “You also are one of them.” “Man, I am not!” Peter replied.
Luke:22:59:About an hour later another asserted, “Certainly this fellow was with him, for he is a Galilean.”
Luke:22:60:Peter replied, “Man, I don’t know what you’re talking about!” Just as he was speaking, the rooster crowed. 
Luke:22:61:The Lord turned and looked straight at Peter. Then Peter remembered the word the Lord had spoken to him: “Before the rooster crows today, you will disown me three times.” 
Luke:22:62:And he went outside and wept bitterly.
Luke:22:63:The men who were guarding Jesus began mocking and beating him. 
Luke:22:64:They blindfolded him and demanded, “Prophesy! Who hit you?” 
Luke:22:65:And they said many other insulting things to him.
Luke:22:66:At daybreak the council of the elders of the people, both the chief priests and the teachers of the law, met together, and Jesus was led before them. 
Luke:22:67:“If you are the Messiah,” they said, “tell us.” Jesus answered, “If I tell you, you will not believe me, 
Luke:22:68:and if I asked you, you would not answer. 
Luke:22:69:But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the mighty God.”
Luke:22:70:They all asked, “Are you then the Son of God?” He replied, “You say that I am.”
Luke:22:71:Then they said, “Why do we need any more testimony? We have heard it from his own lips.”
Luke:23:1:Then the whole assembly rose and led him off to Pilate. 
Luke:23:2:And they began to accuse him, saying, “We have found this man subverting our nation. He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar and claims to be Messiah, a king.”
Luke:23:3:So Pilate asked Jesus, “Are you the king of the Jews?” “You have said so,” Jesus replied.
Luke:23:4:Then Pilate announced to the chief priests and the crowd, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.”
Luke:23:5:But they insisted, “He stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here.”
Luke:23:6:On hearing this, Pilate asked if the man was a Galilean. 
Luke:23:7:When he learned that Jesus was under Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time.
Luke:23:8:When Herod saw Jesus, he was greatly pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see him. From what he had heard about him, he hoped to see him perform a sign of some sort. 
Luke:23:9:He plied him with many questions, but Jesus gave him no answer. 
Luke:23:10:The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there, vehemently accusing him. 
Luke:23:11:Then Herod and his soldiers ridiculed and mocked him. Dressing him in an elegant robe, they sent him back to Pilate. 
Luke:23:12:That day Herod and Pilate became friends—before this they had been enemies.
Luke:23:13:Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, 
Luke:23:14:and said to them, “You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. I have examined him in your presence and have found no basis for your charges against him. 
Luke:23:15:Neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us; as you can see, he has done nothing to deserve death. 
Luke:23:16:Therefore, I will punish him and then release him.” 
Luke:23:18:But the whole crowd shouted, “Away with this man! Release Barabbas to us!” 
Luke:23:19:(Barabbas had been thrown into prison for an insurrection in the city, and for murder.)
Luke:23:20:Wanting to release Jesus, Pilate appealed to them again. 
Luke:23:21:But they kept shouting, “Crucify him! Crucify him!”
Luke:23:22:For the third time he spoke to them: “Why? What crime has this man committed? I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. Therefore I will have him punished and then release him.”
Luke:23:23:But with loud shouts they insistently demanded that he be crucified, and their shouts prevailed. 
Luke:23:24:So Pilate decided to grant their demand. 
Luke:23:25:He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for, and surrendered Jesus to their will.
Luke:23:26:As the soldiers led him away, they seized Simon from Cyrene, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus. 
Luke:23:27:A large number of people followed him, including women who mourned and wailed for him. 
Luke:23:28:Jesus turned and said to them, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children. 
Luke:23:29:For the time will come when you will say, ‘Blessed are the childless women, the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’ 
Luke:23:30:Then “‘they will say to the mountains, “Fall on us!” and to the hills, “Cover us!”’
Luke:23:31:For if people do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?”
Luke:23:32:Two other men, both criminals, were also led out with him to be executed. 
Luke:23:33:When they came to the place called the Skull, they crucified him there, along with the criminals—one on his right, the other on his left. 
Luke:23:34:Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.” And they divided up his clothes by casting lots.
Luke:23:35:The people stood watching, and the rulers even sneered at him. They said, “He saved others; let him save himself if he is God’s Messiah, the Chosen One.”
Luke:23:36:The soldiers also came up and mocked him. They offered him wine vinegar 
Luke:23:37:and said, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.”
Luke:23:38:There was a written notice above him, which read: this is the king of the jews.
Luke:23:39:One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: “Aren’t you the Messiah? Save yourself and us!”
Luke:23:40:But the other criminal rebuked him. “Don’t you fear God,” he said, “since you are under the same sentence? 
Luke:23:41:We are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong.”
Luke:23:42:Then he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.”
Luke:23:43:Jesus answered him, “Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise.”
Luke:23:44:It was now about noon, and darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon, 
Luke:23:45:for the sun stopped shining. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. 
Luke:23:46:Jesus called out with a loud voice, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.” When he had said this, he breathed his last.
Luke:23:47:The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, “Surely this was a righteous man.” 
Luke:23:48:When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away. 
Luke:23:49:But all those who knew him, including the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things.
Luke:23:50:Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, a good and upright man, 
Luke:23:51:who had not consented to their decision and action. He came from the Judean town of Arimathea, and he himself was waiting for the kingdom of God. 
Luke:23:52:Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus’ body. 
Luke:23:53:Then he took it down, wrapped it in linen cloth and placed it in a tomb cut in the rock, one in which no one had yet been laid. 
Luke:23:54:It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
Luke:23:55:The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it. 
Luke:23:56:Then they went home and prepared spices and perfumes. But they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment.
Luke:24:1:On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. 
Luke:24:2:They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, 
Luke:24:3:but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
Luke:24:4:While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them. 
Luke:24:5:In their fright the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead? 
Luke:24:6:He is not here; he has risen! Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: 
Luke:24:7:‘The Son of Man must be delivered over to the hands of sinners, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.’ ” 
Luke:24:8:Then they remembered his words.
Luke:24:9:When they came back from the tomb, they told all these things to the Eleven and to all the others. 
Luke:24:10:It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. 
Luke:24:11:But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense. 
Luke:24:12:Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened.
Luke:24:13:Now that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. 
Luke:24:14:They were talking with each other about everything that had happened. 
Luke:24:15:As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them; 
Luke:24:16:but they were kept from recognizing him.
Luke:24:17:He asked them, “What are you discussing together as you walk along?” They stood still, their faces downcast. 
Luke:24:18:One of them, named Cleopas, asked him, “Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?”
Luke:24:19:“What things?” he asked. “About Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied. “He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. 
Luke:24:20:The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him; 
Luke:24:21:but we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. 
Luke:24:22:In addition, some of our women amazed us. They went to the tomb early this morning 
Luke:24:23:but didn’t find his body. They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. 
Luke:24:24:Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see Jesus.”
Luke:24:25:He said to them, “How foolish you are, and how slow to believe all that the prophets have spoken! 
Luke:24:26:Did not the Messiah have to suffer these things and then enter his glory?” 
Luke:24:27:And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself.
Luke:24:28:As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus continued on as if he were going farther. 
Luke:24:29:But they urged him strongly, “Stay with us, for it is nearly evening; the day is almost over.” So he went in to stay with them.
Luke:24:30:When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them. 
Luke:24:31:Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. 
Luke:24:32:They asked each other, “Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?”
Luke:24:33:They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together 
Luke:24:34:and saying, “It is true! The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon.” 
Luke:24:35:Then the two told what had happened on the way, and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread.
Luke:24:36:While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.”
Luke:24:37:They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. 
Luke:24:38:He said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds? 
Luke:24:39:Look at my hands and my feet. It is I myself! Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have.”
Luke:24:40:When he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet. 
Luke:24:41:And while they still did not believe it because of joy and amazement, he asked them, “Do you have anything here to eat?” 
Luke:24:42:They gave him a piece of broiled fish, 
Luke:24:43:and he took it and ate it in their presence.
Luke:24:44:He said to them, “This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms.”
Luke:24:45:Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures. 
Luke:24:46:He told them, “This is what is written: The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, 
Luke:24:47:and repentance for the forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 
Luke:24:48:You are witnesses of these things. 
Luke:24:49:I am going to send you what my Father has promised; but stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high.”
Luke:24:50:When he had led them out to the vicinity of Bethany, he lifted up his hands and blessed them. 
Luke:24:51:While he was blessing them, he left them and was taken up into heaven. 
Luke:24:52:Then they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. 
Luke:24:53:And they stayed continually at the temple, praising God. 
